In this lecture, I will be talking about deployments in Kubernetes.
Let me first talk about the Replication Sets. The replication Set
is the next generation Replication Controller.
So, it's a newer version of the Replication Controller that I just explained to you in the previous lecture.
It's supports a new selector that can do selection based on filtering according to a set of values.
For instance, the selection could be an environment that is either going to be "dev" or "qa",
not only based on equality like the Replication Controller in the Replication Controller, you can only say an
"environment == dev", you couldn't do anything more complex. With the replication set
you can do more complex matching. This Replica Set rather than Replication Controller is used
by the deployment object.
Let's talk about the Deployments now. A deployment is a declaration in Kubernetes that allows you to do
after deployments and updates. When using the deployment object, you define the state of your application.
Kubernetes will then make sure the cluster matches your desired state.
A state can just be running this application and make sure it is replicated five times. Just the way to
describe this to Kubernetes is most easily done now with the Deployments.
That's why just using the replication controller that you saw earlier or replication set might
be cumbersome to deploy apps.
So those two things might not be fit to deploy your apps.
It would just be too much manual work to then do updates and rollbacks and so on. The deployment object
is much easier to use and gives you more possibilities.
So, what are those possibilities with a deployment object.
You can create a deployment, for instance, just deploying an app, update a deployment, deploy a new version
of your app.
You can also do rolling updates, which means zero downtime deployments.
You're not immediately going to update your whole app, but you are going to do it in steps, so that you will have zero downtime
during this deployment.
You can also easily rollback to a previous version of your app, you can pause and resume
a deployment as well.
For instance if you want to roll out to only a certain percentage of your running pods.
So, this is an example of deployment.
It looks again very similar to the previous specifications that I showed you.
Currently this is still in "v1beta1"
That's why you see another API version in "v1". For sure in the next release
this will become stable and it will go to "v1". Again, this object as "metadata".
We give it a name, the name here is, "helloworld-deployment".
Then we have the "specs".
I'm going to run 3 replicas of this pod and the template is below.
The template has begun, "metadata".
There's a label, the label says, app is "helloworld".
The pod specification then we have one container
still our k8s-demo, still the same image, and still the same port.
So, that looks very, very, similar to all the other things we have seen earlier.
But I will now show you what the deployments really can do for you.
To get information on the growing deployments you can use "kubectl get deployments".
Because deployments are using replica sets, you can use "kubectl get rs". "rs" stands for "Replica Set"
to get the information about the replicas sets.
You'll get pods with short labels can show you the pods that are running.
"Kubectl get pods" with "--show-labels", can show you the pods that are running, and that will just show you the pods that are running, including the labels.
So, whenever we add a label to our pods like the app label, then we can see those if we add show labels
"Kubectl rollout status" type of deployment, and then the name of the deployment
gets the deployment status
So, if you want to know whether the deployment was successfully completed then we can use this command
and this command will show that. "Kubectl set image", our deployment "helloworld-deployment"
can change our image from "k8s-demo" to "k8s-demo:2", with a tag "2". We can actually run another version of this "k8s-demo"
There a version 2 in this repository that is going to say,
"helloworld v2".
And if you want to use that newer version of the "k8s-demo",
then you can just tag your image for the specific version that you want.
If you don't use any version you will use the version that is tagged "latest".
If you specify one then that exact version will be retrieved.
So, using this command can actually update your application to the latest version.
You can achieve the same thing using "kubectl edit", and then edit this deployment object.
"Kubectl rollout state", is going to give you the status of the rollout.
If you update an image to a new version,
Then you can use this rollout status to see how the deployment is progressing.
"Kubectl rollout history" if you want to see a history of your deployed versions.
So, let's say that you first have version 1, then version 2, and 3, "Kubectl rollout history"
will show you those different versions.
And this brings us to something very useful
If you release a new version of your app that's a version 3 and you want to go back to version 2
then you can do a "Kubectl rollout undo"
and this rolls back to the previous version.
If you want to rollback to another version, you can see all the versions using rollout history
if you want them rollback to version 1, for instance,
you can just specify doing "Kubectl rollout undo --to revision=n" and the revision number.
That gives you the possibility to rollback
to any version. In the next demo
I'm going to show you how this all works.